.TH archive_util 3 "January 8, 2005" ""
.SH NAME
.ad l
\fB\%archive_clear_error\fP,
\fB\%archive_compression\fP,
\fB\%archive_compression_name\fP,
\fB\%archive_copy_error\fP,
\fB\%archive_errno\fP,
\fB\%archive_error_string\fP,
\fB\%archive_file_count\fP,
\fB\%archive_format\fP,
\fB\%archive_format_name\fP,
\fB\%archive_set_error\fP
\- libarchive utility functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
\fB#include <archive.h>\fP
.br
\fIvoid\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_clear_error\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_compression\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIconst char *\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_compression_name\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIvoid\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_copy_error\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP, \fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_errno\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIconst char *\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_error_string\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_file_count\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIint\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_format\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIconst char *\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_format_name\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP);
.br
\fIvoid\fP
.br
\fB\%archive_set_error\fP(\fI\%struct\ archive\ *\fP, \fI\%int\ error_code\fP, \fI\%const\ char\ *fmt\fP, \fI\%...\fP);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad l
These functions provide access to various information about the
Tn struct archive
object used in the
\fBlibarchive\fP(3)
library.
.RS 5
.TP
\fB\%archive_clear_error\fP()
Clears any error information left over from a previous call.
Not generally used in client code.
.TP
\fB\%archive_compression\fP()
Returns a numeric code indicating the current compression.
This value is set by
\fB\%archive_read_open\fP().
.TP
\fB\%archive_compression_name\fP()
Returns a text description of the current compression suitable for display.
.TP
\fB\%archive_copy_error\fP()
Copies error information from one archive to another.
.TP
\fB\%archive_errno\fP()
Returns a numeric error code (see
\fBerrno\fP(2))
indicating the reason for the most recent error return.
.TP
\fB\%archive_error_string\fP()
Returns a textual error message suitable for display.
The error message here is usually more specific than that
obtained from passing the result of
\fB\%archive_errno\fP()
to
\fBstrerror\fP(3).
.TP
\fB\%archive_file_count\fP()
Returns a count of the number of files processed by this archive object.
The count is incremented by calls to
\fBarchive_write_header\fP()
or
\fBarchive_read_next_header\fP(.)
.TP
\fB\%archive_format\fP()
Returns a numeric code indicating the format of the current
archive entry.
This value is set by a successful call to
\fB\%archive_read_next_header\fP().
Note that it is common for this value to change from
entry to entry.
For example, a tar archive might have several entries that
utilize GNU tar extensions and several entries that do not.
These entries will have different format codes.
.TP
\fB\%archive_format_name\fP()
A textual description of the format of the current entry.
.TP
\fB\%archive_set_error\fP()
Sets the numeric error code and error description that will be returned
by
\fB\%archive_errno\fP()
and
\fB\%archive_error_string\fP().
This function should be used within I/O callbacks to set system-specific
error codes and error descriptions.
This function accepts a printf-like format string and arguments.
However, you should be careful to use only the following printf
format specifiers:
``%c'',
``%d'',
``%jd'',
``%jo'',
``%ju'',
``%jx'',
``%ld'',
``%lo'',
``%lu'',
``%lx'',
``%o'',
``%u'',
``%s'',
``%x'',
``%%''.
Field-width specifiers and other printf features are
not uniformly supported and should not be used.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.ad l
\fBarchive_read\fP(3),
\fBarchive_write\fP(3),
\fBlibarchive\fP(3),
\fBprintf\fP(3)
.SH HISTORY
.ad l
The
\fB\%libarchive\fP
library first appeared in
FreeBSD 5.3.
.SH AUTHORS
.ad l
-nosplit
The
\fB\%libarchive\fP
library was written by
Tim Kientzle \%<kientzle@acm.org.>
