#summary archive_entry 3 manual page
== NAME ==
*archive_entry_acl_add_entry*,
*archive_entry_acl_add_entry_w*,
*archive_entry_acl_clear*,
*archive_entry_acl_count*,
*archive_entry_acl_next*,
*archive_entry_acl_next_w*,
*archive_entry_acl_reset*,
*archive_entry_acl_text_w*,
*archive_entry_atime*,
*archive_entry_atime_nsec*,
*archive_entry_clear*,
*archive_entry_clone*,
*archive_entry_copy_fflags_text*,
*archive_entry_copy_fflags_text_w*,
*archive_entry_copy_gname*,
*archive_entry_copy_gname_w*,
*archive_entry_copy_hardlink*,
*archive_entry_copy_hardlink_w*,
*archive_entry_copy_link*,
*archive_entry_copy_link_w*,
*archive_entry_copy_pathname_w*,
*archive_entry_copy_sourcepath*,
*archive_entry_copy_stat*,
*archive_entry_copy_symlink*,
*archive_entry_copy_symlink_w*,
*archive_entry_copy_uname*,
*archive_entry_copy_uname_w*,
*archive_entry_dev*,
*archive_entry_devmajor*,
*archive_entry_devminor*,
*archive_entry_filetype*,
*archive_entry_fflags*,
*archive_entry_fflags_text*,
*archive_entry_free*,
*archive_entry_gid*,
*archive_entry_gname*,
*archive_entry_hardlink*,
*archive_entry_ino*,
*archive_entry_mode*,
*archive_entry_mtime*,
*archive_entry_mtime_nsec*,
*archive_entry_nlink*,
*archive_entry_new*,
*archive_entry_pathname*,
*archive_entry_pathname_w*,
*archive_entry_rdev*,
*archive_entry_rdevmajor*,
*archive_entry_rdevminor*,
*archive_entry_set_atime*,
*archive_entry_set_ctime*,
*archive_entry_set_dev*,
*archive_entry_set_devmajor*,
*archive_entry_set_devminor*,
*archive_entry_set_filetype*,
*archive_entry_set_fflags*,
*archive_entry_set_gid*,
*archive_entry_set_gname*,
*archive_entry_set_hardlink*,
*archive_entry_set_link*,
*archive_entry_set_mode*,
*archive_entry_set_mtime*,
*archive_entry_set_pathname*,
*archive_entry_set_rdevmajor*,
*archive_entry_set_rdevminor*,
*archive_entry_set_size*,
*archive_entry_set_symlink*,
*archive_entry_set_uid*,
*archive_entry_set_uname*,
*archive_entry_size*,
*archive_entry_sourcepath*,
*archive_entry_stat*,
*archive_entry_symlink*,
*archive_entry_uid*,
*archive_entry_uname*
- functions for manipulating archive entry descriptions
== SYNOPSIS ==
*#include <archive_entry.h>*
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_acl_add_entry*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _int type_, _int permset_, _int tag_, _int qual_, _const char `*`name_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_acl_add_entry_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _int type_, _int permset_, _int tag_, _int qual_, _const wchar_t `*`name_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_acl_clear*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*int*
<br>
*archive_entry_acl_count*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _int type_);
<br>
*int*
<br>
*archive_entry_acl_next*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _int want_type_, _int `*`type_, _int `*`permset_, _int `*`tag_, _int `*`qual_, _const char `*``*`name_);
<br>
*int*
<br>
*archive_entry_acl_next_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _int want_type_, _int `*`type_, _int `*`permset_, _int `*`tag_, _int `*`qual_, _const wchar_t `*``*`name_);
<br>
*int*
<br>
*archive_entry_acl_reset*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _int want_type_);
<br>
*const wchar_t `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_acl_text_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _int flags_);
<br>
*time_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_atime*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*long*
<br>
*archive_entry_atime_nsec*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*struct archive_entry `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_clear*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*struct archive_entry `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_clone*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*const char `*` `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_fflags_text_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*const wchar_t `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_fflags_text_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const wchar_t `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_gname*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_gname_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const wchar_t `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_hardlink*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_hardlink_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const wchar_t `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_sourcepath*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_pathname_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const wchar_t `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_stat*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const struct stat `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_symlink*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_symlink_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const wchar_t `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_uname*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_copy_uname_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const wchar_t `*`_);
<br>
*dev_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_dev*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*dev_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_devmajor*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*dev_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_devminor*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*mode_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_filetype*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_fflags*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _unsigned long `*`set_, _unsigned long `*`clear_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_fflags_text*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_free*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_gname*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_hardlink*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*ino_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_ino*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*mode_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_mode*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*time_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_mtime*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*long*
<br>
*archive_entry_mtime_nsec*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*unsigned int*
<br>
*archive_entry_nlink*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*struct archive_entry `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_new*(_void_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_pathname*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*const wchar_t `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_pathname_w*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*dev_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_rdev*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*dev_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_rdevmajor*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*dev_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_rdevminor*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_dev*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _dev_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_devmajor*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _dev_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_devminor*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _dev_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_filetype*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _unsigned int_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_fflags*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _unsigned long set_, _unsigned long clear_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_gid*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _gid_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_gname*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_hardlink*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_ino*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _unsigned long_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_link*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_mode*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _mode_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_mtime*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _time_t_, _long nanos_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_nlink*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _unsigned int_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_pathname*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_rdev*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _dev_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_rdevmajor*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _dev_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_rdevminor*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _dev_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_size*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _int64_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_symlink*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_uid*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _uid_t_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_entry_set_uname*(_struct archive_entry `*`_, _const char `*`_);
<br>
*int64_t*
<br>
*archive_entry_size*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_sourcepath*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*const struct stat `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_stat*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_symlink*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_entry_uname*(_struct archive_entry `*`_);
== DESCRIPTION ==
These functions create and manipulate data objects that
represent entries within an archive.
You can think of a
*struct archive_entry*
as a heavy-duty version of
*struct stat :*
it includes everything from
*struct stat*
plus associated pathname, textual group and user names, etc.
These objects are used by
*libarchive*(3)
to represent the metadata associated with a particular
entry in an archive.
=== Create and Destroy===
There are functions to allocate, destroy, clear, and copy
_archive_entry_
objects:
<dl>
<dt>*archive_entry_clear*()</dt><dd>
Erases the object, resetting all internal fields to the
same state as a newly-created object.
This is provided to allow you to quickly recycle objects
without thrashing the heap.
</dd><dt>*archive_entry_clone*()</dt><dd>
A deep copy operation; all text fields are duplicated.
</dd><dt>*archive_entry_free*()</dt><dd>
Releases the
*struct archive_entry*
object.
</dd><dt>*archive_entry_new*()</dt><dd>
Allocate and return a blank
*struct archive_entry*
object.
</dd></dl>
=== Set and Get Functions===
Most of the functions here set or read entries in an object.
Such functions have one of the following forms:
<dl>
<dt>*archive_entry_set_XXXX*()</dt><dd>
Stores the provided data in the object.
In particular, for strings, the pointer is stored,
not the referenced string.
</dd><dt>*archive_entry_copy_XXXX*()</dt><dd>
As above, except that the referenced data is copied
into the object.
</dd><dt>*archive_entry_XXXX*()</dt><dd>
Returns the specified data.
In the case of strings, a const-qualified pointer to
the string is returned.
</dd></dl>
String data can be set or accessed as wide character strings
or normal
_char_
strings.
The functions that use wide character strings are suffixed with
*`_`w*.
Note that these are different representations of the same data:
For example, if you store a narrow string and read the corresponding
wide string, the object will transparently convert formats
using the current locale.
Similarly, if you store a wide string and then store a
narrow string for the same data, the previously-set wide string will
be discarded in favor of the new data.

There are a few set/get functions that merit additional description:
<dl>
<dt>*archive_entry_set_link*()</dt><dd>
This function sets the symlink field if it is already set.
Otherwise, it sets the hardlink field.
</dd></dl>
=== File Flags===
File flags are transparently converted between a bitmap
representation and a textual format.
For example, if you set the bitmap and ask for text, the library
will build a canonical text format.
However, if you set a text format and request a text format,
you will get back the same text, even if it is ill-formed.
If you need to canonicalize a textual flags string, you should first set the
text form, then request the bitmap form, then use that to set the bitmap form.
Setting the bitmap format will clear the internal text representation
and force it to be reconstructed when you next request the text form.

The bitmap format consists of two integers, one containing bits
that should be set, the other specifying bits that should be
cleared.
Bits not mentioned in either bitmap will be ignored.
Usually, the bitmap of bits to be cleared will be set to zero.
In unusual circumstances, you can force a fully-specified set
of file flags by setting the bitmap of flags to clear to the complement
of the bitmap of flags to set.
(This differs from
*fflagstostr*(3),
which only includes names for set bits.)
Converting a bitmap to a textual string is a platform-specific
operation; bits that are not meaningful on the current platform
will be ignored.

The canonical text format is a comma-separated list of flag names.
The
*archive_entry_copy_fflags_text*()
and
*archive_entry_copy_fflags_text_w*()
functions parse the provided text and sets the internal bitmap values.
This is a platform-specific operation; names that are not meaningful
on the current platform will be ignored.
The function returns a pointer to the start of the first name that was not
recognized, or NULL if every name was recognized.
Note that every name--including names that follow an unrecognized name--will
be evaluated, and the bitmaps will be set to reflect every name that is
recognized.
(In particular, this differs from
*strtofflags*(3),
which stops parsing at the first unrecognized name.)
=== ACL Handling===
XXX This needs serious help.
XXX

An
"Access Control List"
(ACL) is a list of permissions that grant access to particular users or
groups beyond what would normally be provided by standard POSIX mode bits.
The ACL handling here addresses some deficiencies in the POSIX.1e draft 17 ACL
specification.
In particular, POSIX.1e draft 17 specifies several different formats, but
none of those formats include both textual user/group names and numeric
UIDs/GIDs.

XXX explain ACL stuff XXX
== SEE ALSO ==
*archive*(3)
== HISTORY ==
The
*libarchive*
library first appeared in
FreeBSD 5.3.
== AUTHORS ==
The
*libarchive*
library was written by
Tim Kientzle  <kientzle@acm.org.>
