#summary archive_util 3 manual page
== NAME ==
*archive_clear_error*,
*archive_compression*,
*archive_compression_name*,
*archive_copy_error*,
*archive_errno*,
*archive_error_string*,
*archive_file_count*,
*archive_format*,
*archive_format_name*,
*archive_set_error*
- libarchive utility functions
== SYNOPSIS ==
*#include <archive.h>*
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_clear_error*(_struct archive `*`_);
<br>
*int*
<br>
*archive_compression*(_struct archive `*`_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_compression_name*(_struct archive `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_copy_error*(_struct archive `*`_, _struct archive `*`_);
<br>
*int*
<br>
*archive_errno*(_struct archive `*`_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_error_string*(_struct archive `*`_);
<br>
*int*
<br>
*archive_file_count*(_struct archive `*`_);
<br>
*int*
<br>
*archive_format*(_struct archive `*`_);
<br>
*const char `*`*
<br>
*archive_format_name*(_struct archive `*`_);
<br>
*void*
<br>
*archive_set_error*(_struct archive `*`_, _int error_code_, _const char `*`fmt_, _..._);
== DESCRIPTION ==
These functions provide access to various information about the
*struct archive*
object used in the
*libarchive*(3)
library.
<dl>
<dt>*archive_clear_error*()</dt><dd>
Clears any error information left over from a previous call.
Not generally used in client code.
</dd><dt>*archive_compression*()</dt><dd>
Returns a numeric code indicating the current compression.
This value is set by
*archive_read_open*().
</dd><dt>*archive_compression_name*()</dt><dd>
Returns a text description of the current compression suitable for display.
</dd><dt>*archive_copy_error*()</dt><dd>
Copies error information from one archive to another.
</dd><dt>*archive_errno*()</dt><dd>
Returns a numeric error code (see
*errno*(2))
indicating the reason for the most recent error return.
</dd><dt>*archive_error_string*()</dt><dd>
Returns a textual error message suitable for display.
The error message here is usually more specific than that
obtained from passing the result of
*archive_errno*()
to
*strerror*(3).
</dd><dt>*archive_file_count*()</dt><dd>
Returns a count of the number of files processed by this archive object.
The count is incremented by calls to
*archive_write_header*()
or
*archive_read_next_header*(.)
</dd><dt>*archive_format*()</dt><dd>
Returns a numeric code indicating the format of the current
archive entry.
This value is set by a successful call to
*archive_read_next_header*().
Note that it is common for this value to change from
entry to entry.
For example, a tar archive might have several entries that
utilize GNU tar extensions and several entries that do not.
These entries will have different format codes.
</dd><dt>*archive_format_name*()</dt><dd>
A textual description of the format of the current entry.
</dd><dt>*archive_set_error*()</dt><dd>
Sets the numeric error code and error description that will be returned
by
*archive_errno*()
and
*archive_error_string*().
This function should be used within I/O callbacks to set system-specific
error codes and error descriptions.
This function accepts a printf-like format string and arguments.
However, you should be careful to use only the following printf
format specifiers:
"%c",
"%d",
"%jd",
"%jo",
"%ju",
"%jx",
"%ld",
"%lo",
"%lu",
"%lx",
"%o",
"%u",
"%s",
"%x",
"%%".
Field-width specifiers and other printf features are
not uniformly supported and should not be used.
</dd></dl>
== SEE ALSO ==
*archive_read*(3),
*archive_write*(3),
*libarchive*(3),
*printf*(3)
== HISTORY ==
The
*libarchive*
library first appeared in
FreeBSD 5.3.
== AUTHORS ==
The
*libarchive*
library was written by
Tim Kientzle  <kientzle@acm.org.>
